https://github.com/plonsker/plonsker.github.io/

###Creating a repository

A repository is where the track record of a developer's work is stored. In the repository, a developer can see what changes they or their team members made, when they were made, and what possible implications such changes have or had. Think of it as a file containing various revisions.

Enter your Github account and click on the plus sign ('+') located next to the icon of your profile image in the top right hand corner. 

Select the 'new repository' option from the drop down menu. You should be then brought to a page where you will be presented with a form for creating a new repository. This repository will contain the revision history of your work. Make sure the repository is under your username (designating yourself as the owner of this revision history file).

Under 'repository name', enter the name of your new repository.

Give a description if necessary. The description can serve as a friendly reminder for yourself. 

Select the public or private option depending on its use (in our case for collaborative work, we will select 'public').

Choose the appropriate license (in our case, MIT License).

Click the 'create repository' button to save all information and enter your new repository.

###Cloning a repository

Next you will want to copy the repository to your machine so you can make revisions. Go to the HTTPS clone url field on the right hand of the repository page you just created and copy the address within. 

Open your command line. This is where your revisions will later be sent back to the repository you created. 

Navigate to you desired directory using the necessary commands ($ cd [your directory]). Make sure you are in the correct location wher eyou would like your files to be downloaded and modified. 

Type on the command line 'git clone' then paste the url you copied from the repository page.

Hit enter. The cloning process will begin. You now have a copy of the repository on your machine that you can make changes to!

###What is open source?
Open source is the means by which the blueprint of a product's innerworkings are shared with general public. The general consumer typically only sees the output of code when interacting with a product's interface. When a product is open source, many programmers are allowed to see what code allows the product to function and even make their own versions of the product. 

###Thoughts on Open Source
At first I personally had mixed feelings on Open Source. The scrappy, go-getter Utopian in me loves the idea, as it allows anyone to access material and build their own versions of systems. Material that can be used to educate oneself should be accessible to everyone. Also, improvements to original products can be made by contributors from all over the world. Progress cannot happen without collaboraiton. However, I am still concerned with how the original creators are to support themselves. While the team at Firefox continues to uphold their noble quest, I honestly do not know how they can continue to support their developers other than through ads generated by Google. I am still prety ignorant of how these open source platofrms get their money. I do know that everything comes at a price. I like to think that one day our concept of 'work' will change, and not everything will have to be supported by AdWords or subscriptions. 

For now though I am leaning towards Open Source being a good thing, as it is the means by which I can view the work of those who came before me and continue to learn how to be a developer. Like Newton, developers 'stand on the shoulders of giants (their predecessors)' to reach new heights.

###Importance of Licenses!
Keep in mind that when it comes to open source that you are giving up certain rights to what you have created. While it is noble to make your project open source so others can contribute, you must be explicit in how far someone can go with that work. In a sense, you are granting certain permissions to a user. A real world example would be someone giving they car keys to their child and giving very specific guidelines. Permissions can range from 'never go above the sppeed limit and be back home by 8PM' to 'just don't wreck the thing'. In open source, there are various licenses by which you are granting users certain permissions, such as 'go ahead and copy the software', distribute it as much as you want', or 'make all kinds of changes you see fit'.

###Lessons, Struggle, Etc.

The concept that was solidified in this challenge was the importance of committing, pushing, and fulfilling the pull request. What I did struggle with was trying to merge branches, fulfilling the pull request, then making sure that branch I created for changes was deleted. Multiple times earlier I ran into conflicting messages of my merges being updated while being unable to delete feature branches due to unmergered changes.  